Accessibility is an interesting one
because unlike some of the other subjects,
it's a little bit vague.
And I think sometimes people don't have
a very clear understanding of what
accessibility is.
So I think one of the main takeaways I
want to get out of this course is that
when people talk about mobile app or
web accessibility,
they're talking about making those apps
usable for people with disabilities.
I really liked this kind
of quote from the web aim,
which is a nonprofit that we'll
talk about in a little bit.
It says when websites and
web tools are properly designed and coded,
people with disabilities can use them.
However, currently, many sites and tools
are developed with accessibility barriers
that make them difficult or
impossible for some of us.
Making the web accessible benefits
individuals, businesses, and society.
So I liked a lot of that, I liked that.
When we do things right, folks across
a wide spectrum of different disabilities
can get the most out of our site, can
completely use it easily and productively.
However, a lot of sites that exist today
have major accessibility issues that
prevent folks from using them.
And then I really liked at
the end that it's like,
making the websites accessible
benefits everybody.
I mean, it benefits your company,
it benefits people with disabilities,
it benefits power users.
It benefits your regular majority users,
everybody benefits from
making accessible websites.
I think some other reason that folks
get a little bit confused is because
accessibility reaches into a lot of other
fields, or shares a lot of similarities.
So when I give talks on accessibility,
I often get questions about
these three other fields.
So I kind of wanted to cover
them really quick, and
talk about where they share things,
and then where they differ.
So the first one is web performance.
And specifically, web performance is when
you think about making your mobile web
app or your mobile native app
really small and really fast, so
that folks all over the world can use it.
So making an app that's very easily
usable by folks on slower connections, or
with slower devices is really
similar to accessibility.
But again, accessibility is
about people with disability, so
it's not exactly the same thing.
Although it's a great thing to learn,
a great thing to be doing.
Another one is internationalization.
So that's the process of
making your app translated and
then usable in people's native languages.
So if you have like a language switcher,
or if you detect the system language and
then automatically switch the content for
users.
Again, this is like really great,
and it's important, and
it helps a wider range of
folks use your website.
But it's, again, not exactly what
we're gonna be covering today.
And then the third one is UI design.
And specifically,
UI design is when we talk about making
your app really intuitive,
easy to use, easy to understand.
Things like that are really helpful,
again, increasing your audience,
increasing your user base,
all those things are great.
But again,
it's not exactly what we're into today.
So for today, web accessibility means
people with disabilities can use the web.
I also really liked this quote,
because for
me the web is like a really special place.
It's not a walled garden,
it's very easy for folks to contribute, or
carve out their own spaces,
or create content.
So this quote really stood out to
me where it says more specifically,
web accessibility means that people
with disabilities can perceive,
understand, navigate and
interact with the web.
And then this part, and
that they can contribute to the web.
And I think it's important to keep in
mind as we go through this workshop,
that we're not just trying
to meet some bare minimum.
We're not saying like, hey,
we'll have this really robust app.
And then we'll detect if a user
has a disability, and if so,
we'll give them a quick summary or
a short version.
We're really trying to make robust apps
that people with disabilities can get
the absolute most out of.
So being able to contribute,
being able to upload their own media,
being able to add comments.
Being able to make edits
anything that anyone else can do,
everyone should be able to do, and
that's really important to me.
Another thing I find really interesting is
when we start talking about the wide range
of disabilities that we're
going to cover in this course.
Just kind of the magnitude of it, so
I had some statistics that have
always really stood out to me.
So in the United States, one in four, or
a little bit over 26% of adults
have some type of disability.
And then as folks get older, it goes up.
So it goes from one and four to two and
five by the time you're 65 years of age.
20% of people in the US report
some type of hearing loss,
and 29 million of them could
benefit from hearing aids.
So I want to as we go through this course,
start thinking about
different disabilities.
Internalizing them, and thinking about
how that might affect the experience of
browsing your application,
or the web in general.
And then learning about really cool and
easy ways that we can make that experience
way better, that's sort of the cycle
of this course is going to take.
2.3% have visual disability, and 1 million
people in the US alone are legally blind.
So we're thinking about folks, a large
amount of folks with some disability.
A lot of folks that report
some kind of hearing loss,
a lot of folks that report
some kind of visual loss.
And then 16% of people in the US have
difficulties with their physical function.
So again, we start thinking about, okay,
if folks have some kind of physical
functioning disability, what can we do
to make our sights better for them?
And then around 8 million people in
the US have an intellectual disability,
including a really large
amount of children.
So again, we're kinda like looking
at this empathizing with folks and
thinking, okay, well,
what can we do to make this a lot better?
And again, kind of thinking of all
the different types of disabilities, and
how those would affect
people using your app.
So mobile and
physical disabilities versus cognitive and
neurological disabilities, folks with
some kind of hearing disability, or
some kind of visual disability.
And again, we're going to
cover all of these in detail,
just trying to get folks like kind
of a high level idea of, yeah,
we're talking about how to think about it,
things like that.
One other interesting thing is that, I
always do this like my kind of sales pitch
for folks is that,
the web by itself is extremely accessible.
So I'm not sure how much folks know about,
kind of how the web came to be.
The standard's body is that
work on things like the W3, but
a lot of thought goes into this stuff.
And so
I always use this kind of fun example, so
this is what is considered by some
to be the very first website.
So it's on the CERN web address right now,
and
it's like this introduction to
the World Wide Web called W3.
A hypermedia information retrieval
initiative was kind of funny,
like a blast from the past, but
if you look at this site, it's very basic.
It's just HTML, there's no CSS or
JavaScript or anything.
But if we start thinking about things,
this site performance is very well
against an accessibility audit, right?
So the links you can move around
to with your keyboard only.
If we open a screen reader,
which we'll go into later,
it'll read all the links are labeled and
are well reasoned about.
And so I think kind of the point that I
want to drive home is if you're making
a web app, and you were to just use HTML,
it would be fairly accessible.
Where we get into issues is when folks
start adding a lot of CSS and a lot of
JavaScript to provide this robustness,
it becomes inaccessible in some ways.
And so I think one thing to kind of keep
in mind is that we're not spending extra
work making the web accessible,
it's like we spent extra work
making it a little inaccessible.
And so this class is about kind of
teaching you all how to counter that, and
make it accessible again.
Because there's some really cool tools
out there, you can have very complex
workflows that are very accessible,
which is very exciting for me.
I always do this too as part
of my selling point, so
reasons developers should
learn accessibility.
Well, it's fun.
I truly believe that not
trying to be cheesy,
I think that it's like really cool.
You start kind of empathizing with a lot
of folks, you start using tools that you
maybe haven't used before,
such as a screen reader.
And it's really fun,
it's fun to check out your website,
learn a lot more about how it's
structured and how it functions, and
then make small precise corrections
that make it a lot better.
I don't know how many of you
all have ever tried something,
I remember the first time I used the Lynx
browser, a text only web browser, right?
So it doesn't render anything visual.
And I started looking at all my websites,
and it just dumps them out in this pure
structure of headings, and
links, and things like that.
And it really blew my mind, I was like,
I really have to redo a lot of this stuff.
Cuz you'll do something like,
I don't want to use heading tags,
I'll just use paragraphs.
We'll give them a CSS class and then I'll
make them large, or something like that.
And then over time you open it
up in a text only browser, and
it's really difficult to use.
I find that experience a lot
with accessibility as well,
where I'll kind of do all these things.
These little hacks, or little tricks, or
whatever, just to kind of get through, and
then I'll open it up in a screen
reader and it's very difficult.
So I have a lot of fun kind of doing that,
and it's really important to remember that
a lot of these accessibility
issues are caused by us.
As developers, we make an experience with
JavaScript and CSS that's inaccessible,
and so we're kind of taking that back.
Another thing is the human rights angle.
One, I'm just a really big proponent
of making things accessible for
folks with disabilities.
They absolutely deserve to be able to use
the web in the same way that folks without
disabilities do.
The other thing is I've had a lot
of really great experiences over
the years meeting folks that
are either accessibility developers, or
using the web as power users
with some sort of disability.
And kind of getting to know them,
getting to know their stories, and
just working together to find really
cool ways to make things happen.
It's also a legal issue.
It's becoming more and more so common
place that you can get into some legal
trouble for
not having an accessible web presence.
We've seen a few lawsuits recently, mostly
on government sites and things like that.
But I do think the future, much like we
have accessibility guidelines for brick
and mortar buildings, we'll have the same
thing for web and mobile apps as well.
There's also some selfish reasons,
like you can reach away larger audience.
We're talking about in many cases
like 25% of the world population.
So being able to make your site
a little bit easier to use for
people with disabilities could open you up
to a lot more customers, a lot more users.
It's really impactful too.
So even a more selfish reason maybe is,
I think it's a really cool thing,
this kinda goes with the last one.
When you get a job as a developer,
especially as you become more of
a senior developer, I think that
specializing is really important.
Not that you have to do it all the time,
but that you're kind of known maybe on
your team or in your org for
being really good at something.
I think that accessibility is
a great thing to specialize in,
it's really impactful.
It means a lot to a lot of folks, and
so taking some time to learn about
accessibility and
then kind of going into your work.
For example, I know larger
companies like Twitter and Adobe,
they have whole
accessibility organisations.
Where they want someone in each org to
be like an accessibility shepherd, or
the go to person for accessibility issues.
So I think becoming that person can be
really impactful on your career, and yeah,
and really helpful.